
= The Coming Storm =

  Humanity is alone among the stars and, as always when humanity has
  only itself to deal with, war is constant.  An inner circle of
  systems are allied against separatist rebels who seek their
  independence.  It would be a tale told a thousand times, if there
  were not much worse in store....


== Plot ==

There are three phases to the module's progression

=== Act I: The Calm Before ===

  The player is a newly licensed ship pilot, and has the most
  rinky-dink ship possible.  They will start in Alliance territory
  (likely Earth) and be able to move freely from there.  Early
  missions will be deliveries and, in outlying sectors, an easy bounty
  hunt or two

  Every so often, the player will see propaganda about the war.
  Eventually, if they stick around Alliance areas enough and gain
  renown against pirates, they may be approached by Alliance military
  for a more active role in the war.

  Rebel space is easy to gain entrance to; at the beginning of the
  game neither side will have an opinion about the player, and thus
  the player is safe from firefights.  Pirates tend to only operate at
  the more outward fringes.  Rebel space features no propaganda but
  plenty of shady-seeming deals.   Gaining renown against pirates is
  also a good way to gain renown among the Rebels.


==== The War ====

  Whichever side the player chooses will have them first run supply
  missions (which will gain them more renown for their chosen side).
  Bounty hunts for enemy scouts, as well as scouting missions, will be
  made available.  Plot missions will eventually allow the player to
  give supplies to the front and/or perform sabotage on
  stations/planets.  Neutral sectors will become controlled by the
  player's side.


==== The Gate ====

  As a side series of missions, a neutral group of scientists will
  hire the player pretty much almost out of the gate.  They will have
  random scouting and delivery missions, but not much else.  At a
  certain point in the war, however, the player will be given a plot
  mission to use a scanning in some sector (very similar to random
  missions).  There they will discover the Gate.


  There are two more plot missions for the gate.  One is similar to
  the first (scientists explain they need more details on the gate,
  player escorts their ships there).  The second comes some time later
  when the scientists (at their base) invent a machine they think can
  trigger the gate remotely and have you deliver it.  When the player
  does so, the gate opens and the Medreggi flow through, ending Act I.


  (Act II begins when the player jumps out of the sector.  If they
  take the time to look around before leaving, they may see the
  Medreggi Command Ship)


=== Act II: Eye ===

==== Reconciliation ====

  At first, nobody but the scientists is aware of the Medreggi
  influence.  They will send you on diplomatic missions to whichever
  side of the war you support.


  Medreggi ships will begin appearing in the formerly neutral zones
  after that initial mission.  Your side of the war will call for
  peace talks and have you sent as an emissary to a station of the
  other side.  Renown will probably be reset at this point so the
  player doesn't get blown up; either that or make Medreggi ships so
  common that defense forces are busy.


  In light of the actual alien invasion, the other side agrees to
  concede whatever points your side had.  If you're rebel, this means
  that while you'll be part of the government in name, you (and all
  planets) have much freer run of internal politics, and better
  support.  If you're alliance, this is essentially the rebels
  renouncing their uprising and being absorbed into the greater
  alliance.


  After this, the old Alliance and Rebel organizations are removed and
  replaced with Humanity.  Pirates continue but are less active
  (especially in Rebel space)


==== Lingering Hatred ====

  Even though all of humanity is supposedly united against the
  invaders, some are holding on to their old ways.  The player may be
  approached for sabotage missions against the player's old foe.  They
  can take them or turn them in (upon turning in, all future sabotage
  missions have different objectives) without a renown hit.  Even
  these missions end in Act III


==== The New Face of War ====

  The player will receive random missions from any mission board for
  resupply and recon to help with the war effort.  


  The scientists will be providing their own recon missions that have
  the player going deep into now-Medreggi owned territory for scans.
  These incursions will be especially resisted in the target sector.
  A plot mission available at this point is to go to the initial gate
  location without weapons as a show of good faith.  This will be as
  aggresively resisted as the incursions to other sectors were.  (The
  Command Ship will not appear at this location in Act II)


  At some point, the player will have a mission to capture a Medreggi ship.

  There are no other plot missions for the war effort except for the
  seemingly-random "Defend location X" missions.  While these require
  little other than showing up in the sector and maybe blowing up a
  fleet or two, they will reveal patterns.  After a few of these, the
  scientists will realize that the Medreggi resist any space-based
  defense but completely ignore the planets.


==== Reaching Out ====

  After the initial gate outreach and the scientists' realization that
  the Medreggi spare planets, they theorize that something about the
  Ships is aggravating them.  Thus, any ship flying 'silently' would
  go unremarked.  The scientists want to both test this theory and
  find out more about the gate, so your scan is to only include the
  gate while flying silenty.


  The player will be equipped with a free 'Gate Scanner' secondary
  weapon at this point.  Medreggi ships will still attack en route,
  but at the destination it will initially appear as though the ships
  are non-hostile.  Only upon the player's use of the gate scanner
  (with anything as a target) will they turn hostile.


  This delights the scientists - not only do they get a good scan of
  the gate to consider, they also realize that it is the scanners
  themselves which are setting off the Medreggi's aggression.  They
  confirm this suspicion with the captured ship; its sensors never
  seemed to work, but once towed out to deep space (escort mission?)
  and other ships go silent, they work excellently.


  The Medreggi language is impossible to decipher, but the ship's
  storage is not.  Using the sensors, the ship can locate the Command
  Ship.  The player will have a choice between flying the Medreggi
  Warship or disguising their own (in case they don't want to give it
  up)


  The scientists have prepared data on humanity, including languages
  and how to adjust Medreggi sensors to filter out the noise that the
  humans' sensors are causing.  This information is already aboard the
  Warship (or the player's ship) in a format it is hoped the Medreggi
  will understand.  It will be uploaded upon docking with the Command
  Ship.  This is probably a suicide mission, but the player thus far
  established that they are one of the few who can survive impossible
  odds, etc.


  Renown with the Medreggi is reset again so that they are non-hostile
  to the player.


  Upon locating the Command Ship (it'll be in a previously empty
  sector and landable) and the player docking, Act III commences.


=== Act III: Any Port ===

  The Medreggi understand and offer profuse apologies; they had indeed
  assumed the scanners were part of an attack, and as all their people
  are on the ships, they had to defend themselves.  They are coming
  from a dying universe ("Last World") to a dying universe ("Current
  World", i.e. the player's) and searching for another gate (to "Next
  World"), as they believe what devoured their universe is en route.
  They regard the player as particularly honored, as the player was
  the one who activated the gate and allowed them to escape to Current
  World.


  Medreggi colony ships will now appear.  Renown will once again reset
  for everyone so that Medreggi are non-hostile to all.  The former
  war effort will give the player "Deliver Diplomats" and "Deliver
  Aid" missions.  Scientists will give "Deliver/Retrieve Scientists"
  missions in the hopes that they can learn something.  Medreggi
  themselves will give you recon missions to attempt to find the other
  gate. (at this point, to no avail)


==== Strangelets ====

  Having been given free passage to the gate sector, the scientists
  will give more recon missions to scan it.  The Medreggi will have
  left it by this point, but after some time unidentified black spots
  identified as "Strangelets" appear.  They're invincible but do no
  damage (unless I can figure out a cool way for them to do so).  The
  scientists are confused and have no idea what's going on, so they
  send you to bring the data to the Command Ship.


  The Medreggi are horrified at this data - they warn the player not
  to go to that sector, as it will soon be devoured the way their old
  universe was.  The Strangelets are a sign that this will occur.
  After the player gets this message, the gate sector will vanish.


  From this point on, the Medreggi will have several missions
  requesting pickup of large amounts of materials to be dropped off at
  the Command Ship and various Foundries.


  Scientists will send you to investigate gate sector but it will no
  longer be on the map.  Upon arrival in the buffer sector, the player
  can confirm that it is strangelet-free.  Upon return, the former war
  leadership will think the threat over, but both the Medreggi and
  Scientists will send you on occasional 'monitor the situation in
  buffer' missions.  One of these missions will discover Strangelets.

 
  Old war leadership will send you to Command Ship to ask for Medreggi
  advice.  Medreggi have been building more colony ships for humanity,
  having known in advance that the universe was doomed (The storm goes
  from universe to universe; the Medreggi attempt to save what they
  can from each one and escape to the next).  They offer to help
  evacuate any human planet that needs it, in return for your help in
  locating the gate.


  From this point forward, the random sectors that Medreggi missions
  send you include the actual second gate sector as a possibility.


==== Evacuation ====

  Any inhabited sector that shows Strangelets will post an "Evacuate
  <planet>" mission.  The player has X days until that sector is
  destroyed entirely.  All the player has to do is go to the planet,
  they will call the Medreggi upon it to perform the actual
  evacuation; evacuations are tracked.


  After a sector is destroyed, any adjacent sector will be filled with
  Strangelets Y days afterward.


  The former war council will notice that, if things proceed on this
  course, a large portion of formerly-rebel space will be cut off.  In
  a show of reconciliation for humanity, they will ask the player to
  evacuate the entire area (it will be posted as above).  When the
  area is cut off, all sectors in it are treated as destroyed.


  The instant the player finds the second gate, they will be asked to
  return to the Command Ship.  The Medreggi will waste no time
  evacuating their warships, leaving only colony ships for humanity
  and an offer of alliance and information about what is on the other
  side of the gate  (The Command Ship will be available in the second
  gate sector until the end of the game).


  The former war council will post a mission to have the player get
  info from the Command Ship at its new location and return: The
  outlook is good, nobody appears to be on the other side of the gate,
  and there are habitable worlds.  The council tells the player that
  evacuations are top priority.


  When all sectors are destroyed, empty, evacuated, or any combination
  of the three, the final mission is given: Evacuate through the gate.


==== Epilogue ====

  Humanity lives because of the Medreggi, and discover that the
  Medreggi are actually a number of different races that have been
  saved over untold numbers of years.  Thanks to the player, X
  million/billion/trillion people are alive (depending on evac stats).
  The Medreggi do not know when the Strangelets will come again,
  sometimes it has been mere minutes, other times hundreds of years.
  They advise against settling anywhere, as they will only have to be
  evacuated again.


  Humanity disagrees.  "We will settle.  We will rebuild.  And one
  day, we will return"


  <The End>

== Factions ==

=== Alliance ===

  The alliance are the inner systems, the ones most linked to and
  easiest to keep communications to.  These systems are, for the most
  part, willing participants in the alliance.  Originally formed to
  defend themselves against Pirates and the early imagined threat of
  alien invasion, they have taken an increasingly heavy-handed role in
  government.


=== Rebel ===

  Outer colonies were and are, in general, poorer than the inner
  colonies, as they are more recently developed.  Furthermore, though
  traders love dealing with newly formed colonies, there is an
  increasing feeling that the alliance would rather keep business to
  itself.  After being, from their perspective, neglected, the Rebels
  formed their own much more loosely held government.  It was this
  action which got the Alliance's attention.


=== Pirates ===

  As much as the Rebel would like to pretend they have the high
  ground, are fighting for freedom, etc, in reality they have very
  loose control of their systems and thus the outer parts of rebel
  territory are rife with banditry.  Pirates also operate in other
  remote areas, though often not in as strong a concentration.  Rebels
  will occasionally bribe pirates to operate as mercenaries for them
  in their conflicts.


=== Scientists ===

  The driving force of the main plot, the scientist faction is more
  powerful in combat than you'd expect nerds to be.  Their goals are
  exploration and, as such, they tend to run into Pirates.  For this
  reason they arm themselves surprisingly well; all non-military ships
  were designed by this faction.  Always offers delivery and scout
  missions, occasionally missions against Pirates.


=== Medreggi ===

  Aliens from "Previous World", they at first think humans are
  attacking them by blinding their sensors; this is due to their
  superior sensor technology being over-sensitive for our universe and
  thus blinded by routine scans.  They retaliate quickly.  Only after
  some time do humans come to realize the mistake, and an
  understanding is reached.

